I want to start the first chapter of the book with
your early childhood. I have the letters that you
wrote to me, which talk about a lot of your first
impressions,
which you remember, I think, sending me those, the
ones about seeing the first time you saw a dead man,
which is a very well-written piece. You remember
that one? Yes, I do. Do you know one? Uh-huh. That
was Tom Ruby. Uh-huh. And when Roy was talking
about the old Culberson place, and I told you about
the chimney. Yes, the chimney, right. That is the
old Culberson place. It is. That's exactly right.
Okay, that gives me a definition. That gives you a
definition of exactly. Well, that was it. I'm
going to send you, I'm going to go over to the Texas
Highway Department and buy you a 35-cent, Blanco
County map, and I will mail this to you with
instructions that you take your crayons and color
in areas which are significant to your
upbringing, okay? I think that'll be fun, too, you
know? You'll get a kick out of it. And, too, when we
lived... Now, when Roy was telling about this old
Culberson place, well, that was... We called it
the old chimney place because the house... Well,
it burned down... Soon after, well, I just don't
know. See, we moved down there in 1912.
And it must have been, it burned down about 1913 or
1914. I don't know. I see. But anyway, right along
in there. How old was the house? When was it built?
Oh, my heavens. That old house was built in, oh,
back in 18... I guess about 1860. Was it? One of the
earliest? One of the very earliest houses is built
in this country. Okay. And that was on the road to
Cypress Mills. Yes, right. And they'd go through
that way to go to dances. My mother and Aunt Mabel
and Uncle Jay would go by the old Culberson place
going to a dance. Right. I know something I want to
ask you about. Let's go back. I want you to do a small
genealogy chart also of your family.
You know what I'm saying, the Chapman side, the
Johnson side. Because you know you've got some
German roots. I sure do, and I'm proud of them. That
means I'm proud of all of them. told me one time,
Scotch, Irish, and devil. I really realize that. I
know that now. Scotch, Irish, and devil. I know
that now as time goes on. I met some Scottish
friends the other day, and I know I can see it very
plainly. The Macintosh and the Macintyres and the
Buttons were all Scotch. Irish. My grandmother
was a Her mother was a Macintyre. And her mother was
a Macintosh. So that pretty well puts the
discussion... That pretty well puts me right in
there. In the middle of it. And, of course, the
Johnsons originally were sweet. When they came
and... When England and Norway were... Having
their trouble with the North Sea and whatnot, the
Johnsons went into... England. And soon after
they landed there, they dropped the T, Johnston,
and made it Johnson. Yeah. I see. See, and then they
came from there. I believe their first, well, it
was four brothers of them that came over together.
And one of them stopped in Boston. right at the
Plymouth Rock, you might say. And the other one was
down
further on down New Jersey, one in Virginia. And,
well, my grandparents, I am sure from what I can
gather was one that stopped in Virginia. Yeah. And
so that's
and then of course they came on over into Kentucky
and You know, Grandmother Johnson was born in
Russellville, Kentucky. She was born in
Russellville? Yes, ma'am. I've been there. Born
in Russellville, Kentucky. How about that? Yes,
sir. And then, well, my grandfather was born in
Georgia. Uh-huh. And my
great-grandfather Johnson was sheriff in
Georgia. Uh-huh. Well, let's see what county it
was at. Well, I have it. I'll put it, I'll send it to
you. Okay, good. But anyway, he was sheriff there
for years. I don't know. It must have been in the
blood of the Johnsons to be in politics. Yeah. I
think it was. Because he was sheriff, and he had a
son that was sheriff, and Grandpa Johnson, he was
just a trail drover. That was it, and a preacher.
Boy, he knew his Bible. But I don't know. I know when
they came to Texas, Grandfather preached a lot in
Louisiana, too. Mm-hmm. Mississippi, as they
came through. He was always a very religious man.
He was a Baptist up until he went into the Christian
church, which is a branch of the Puritan religion.
But he preached along the way. He came along in the
covered wagon. He was a preacher. Yeah, so that's
very interesting. And then he went into the cattle
industry right here. Why don't you tell me about
just,
well, I know I can look up a lot of information, but
I'd rather hear it from you. Well, the only thing, I
know that my first time grandfather came here was
back in the early 50s. And I said the early 50s. I
don't mean the early 50s. I mean the late 50s. And he
brought that provost built the first cabin up
there
on the old Johnson Place. And grandfather bought
it from provost. Uh-huh. And who was provost? The
provost was just one of the first settlers in this
part of the country. And the Wallers were early
settlers here. The Criters, the Summys,
provosts, Mays, Kletts, Kellys, Greens,
Harringtons, Smiths. That gets about all of them.
About everybody. About everybody. And they were
all early settlers here. And then in 1858,
grandfather bought. And we didn't have any wire
fence laws at that time. And that is another thing
that you went by marks of trees. and rocks and
rivers as landmarks and boundaries for your land.
And our deed, which God bless the little old Park's
heart,
says to, well they kept telling Corky rode the
wagon, and they kept saying, this is Brookner
property. Well, it was not. It was Sam Ely's
property, and where the exhibit hall is was on the
Sam Johnson property for grandfathers. The only
little thing, you know where the chuck wagon is?
Yes. That side of the creek, now. I said that side of
the creek. Uh-huh. was Brookner's and up and where
the old smokehouse, there was a straight line that
went right straight out to the field. Now that was
Brookner's. And they kept, I don't know, I can't
understand why they can't look at their own deed
and see that. But anyway, they didn't. They were
just writing their own history. Yes, they were
doing their own history. Anyway, they said Pope
Johnson's barn wasn't there, but oh, it was. And it
was there when grandmother was held under the
house by the Indians because grandfather has told
me that story many, many times. Why don't you tell
me that story? Well, he had gone to get some stairs
that he had bought from the Phelps's down on Miller
Creek. About what time was this? It was in the fall
of the year because they were going to make well I
said fall is late summer. Probably in September.
About this time of the year. And he was going and he
went down there to bring the stairs that he had
bought from the Phelps's to up to the old
settlement house, which they call the old
settlement place. It's the Johnson House. And he
left grandmother there with Aunt Mary, who was the
oldest child. And she was a person... that could
shoot as well as any Indian and ride just as well.
That's grandmother Bunton Johnson. Grandmother
Bunton, Eliza Jane Bunton Johnson. And she was
quite a lady. She was not a woman who talked a lot.
But when she spoke, you listened. And what she had
to say was worth it. And I can tell you one thing. She
didn't tell you twice not to do something. She told
you once, and if you did it, there was always a
reason that she used that butter paddle. Mm-hmm.
The butter paddle. The butter paddle. Oh, or that
old wooden spoon. Man, why that hurt. Okay. I well
remember that. The butter paddle and wooden
spoon. And I didn't get but two of them. And that was
all it took. For your grandmother. For my
grandmother. Right. Well, my grandfather didn't
think I ever deserved anything like that. No. I'd
have never gotten a spanking. I'll guarantee you
that. Well, anyway, that day when the Indians
came. And the Indians came, and Grandmother
crawled under the house. Well, she was down at the
spring getting water. And we dug that spring out
and made that hole of water. Now, is that the spring
that's right behind you? Right. Your old house
there? Old, yes. Right down there by the exhibit
center. Right. And that was the string that was on
top of the ground. But it had a hole dug out to get
water. But anyway, we dug that thing out to
irrigate with. Yeah, and you had the pecans. And
the pecans, yeah. In the early 20s. Well,
grandmother's down there getting water and she
looked out across the flat. That's the reason I
told you a while ago we didn't have these cedars and
we didn't have all that. Right, you had the flat
grassland. Grassland. And she saw these Indians
coming. And she ran to the house and grabbed little
Mary and right in front of that fireplace was a trap
door. Yes. And there was a root cellar under the
house, not a big old thing, but a root cellar is all
it was where she put her things. And lots of times,
that's where she kept a lot of her groceries to keep
the Indians from stealing them. What kind of
Indians were these? The Comanches. Comanches.
When she heard them coming, she grabbed little
Mary and the diapers out and crawled under there
and just pulled this door down. It had an old rug in
front of it. And it didn't show to be a door or
anything because the floor was pieced all the way
across with lumber, but only part of it came up. And
that was because of the way it was built. And you
didn't know it was a door. And she got down there,
and she kept little Mary in. These Indians stole so
many of her wedding gifts, and all of the supplies
that Grandfather had gotten from Austin to go on
this cattle drive, he and Uncle Tom, and she knew
that Little Mary would cry and wake them and she
tied a diaper around her mouth so that it would
muffle the cry. And she could hear the Indians
taking the things out of the house. She could hear
them going through her trunk and everything. And
she heard the cattle stampede at the barn, and she
knew that they were driving them off or doing
something. She couldn't tell what. And she heard
the horses when they broke out of the pen and they
opened the gate. They stole a couple of his saddle
horses, and they killed a beef. and took it and it
was after night when grandfather came in and he
knew that something was wrong because the cattle
sat and he knew the horses was out and all out and
around the place and he knew there was something
wrong and he came in and he hollered Eliza Eliza
where are you are you here he went back to the barn
and He called for Uncle Tom and he said, Tom, where
are you? And Tom said, I'm rounding up the stock,
bringing them back to the pen. He says, come on,
we've got to find Liza. Indians have been here.
They've killed a beef. The horses are gone. We've
got to find Liza and Mary, little Mary. And Uncle
Tom said, well, have you looked at the house? And he
said, she's not there. She didn't answer me. He
said, well, let's go back and to the house and see.
He said, she might be around there and we might find
her. And so grandfather came in and he said, Eliza,
and she didn't answer. Called Eliza again. He
stomped his boot heel. He says, Eliza Jane Button,
if you're here, answer me. And when he said Eliza
Jane Button, she answered. And he said, well, why
didn't you answer me before? She said, Sam Ely, an
Indian can mimic anything, and I knew no one knew
that my name was Eliza Jane but you. And that's the
reason I answered. Oh, how about that, yeah. And
the only reason I answered was because you called
me Eliza Jane Button, and that's the reason I
answered. Well, soon after that, they had the
Battle of Deer Creek. And the wounded were taken
there to the house. Well, grandmother didn't have
any cotton. Now, what year was that? I can't
remember. I know what the Battle of Deer Creek was,
but I don't have it written down, so I can't. I can't
tell you. I can look it up. It was in the 60s, so early
part. The Battle of Deer Creek, was that because
the Phelps were murdered? That was before. I mean,
after the Phelpses were murdered, the Phelpses
were scalped first. Yeah. And then the Battle of
Deer Creek. Then the Battle of Deer Creek. The
Dolly Heights were killed at Round Mountain also.
Now, I'm not familiar with that. Well, the Dolly
Heights were on their way to church. Uh-huh. And
that's Emmett Redford's great-grandfather. Oh,
really? You bet. Whoa, okay. And they were, his
mother was a Dolly Hyde. A Dolly Hyde. Yes, Emmett
Redford's mother was a Dolly Hyde. Okay, all
right. And Emmett Redford's mother taught me one
year in declamations, and I won in the county, went
to the district. And I recited a poem that Daniel
Webster wrote. Oh, you did? Mm-hmm. Which was
that? It was that. the nation, our nation, and he
said, God grant that I shall not see a divided
nation, that this curtain shall never rise again.
It's a beautiful poem, and it is so true. You'll
have to go back. That happened first? Yeah, before
the Battle of Deer Creek. Now, the Dolly Heights
were killed and the Phelps were scalped. Then the
Battle of Deer Creek. Then the Battle of Deer
Creek. Well, grandmother put under the cabin
before any of that. Yeah, she went under the cabin
before any of all that happened. All that
happened. This all led up to the Battle of Deer
Creek. This all led up to that. And that's when they
chased them out to Pack Saddle Mountain. That's
right. Isn't that correct? Yes, sir. And you had
some rangers come in on that? Yes, sir. And what was
that about? I remember. Well, they just was trying
to rid them out of the country. Just chasing them
out. Just chasing them out. That is all. And...
Captain Ruth Perry. And his old cabin is right up
here in town. Uh-huh. Which one is that? Minnie Cox
has her. Minnie Cox's house is Perry's cabin.
Cabin. Old Ruth Perry's cabin. You bet your bottom
dollar. I see. Okay. And I can't, law me alive. You
know, I tell you, whenever you stop to think about
it, Uh-huh. Uh, When Ruth Perry came to visit,
Grandfather, little folks have big ears. And I'd
sit and listen to those Indian tales. Really? Be
scared to death and couldn't go to sleep that
night. And Grandma and Grandpa, me and I'd have to
go and crawl in bed, and I'd get between them. The
Indians would get me every time he'd come. But I'd
want another story. I'd want him to tell me another
story. And I'd sit and listen. Tell me about your
relationship to your grandfather, Johnson, and
to Eliza, the time you did spend with them. And I
think you've told me about... Uncle Jesse, too.
Oh, Uncle Jesse was the one that really played a
very important part. And I want to hear about him
again. He was whose? He was Grandpa Johnson's
brother. Grandpa Johnson. Tom. Tom and Sam and
Jesse were all brothers. And Jesse was in the Civil
War. Uh-huh. Fought for the South, of course. So
did Grandfather. So did Uncle Tom. Right. All
three of them. All three of them. Okay. And Uncle
Jesse got his leg shot off. And you're very
sensitive about that. Yeah. And I... You tell me
about Uncle Jesse. He seems to be one of my favorite
characters, too. He was one of the sweetest men
that ever lived. He's a man that loved nature. And I
think that's where it was really instilled in me.
We lived back behind Grandfather, up in about, oh,
I guess a good mile from where Lyndon lived, back
to... three-quarter of a mile from Grandfather
Johnson. And every afternoon, it would be Uncle
Jesse would go down. And we had a field. We lived out
in the field, and the well was close to the house.
But the pasture had a lane that led down and a wooden
gap that we let the cows through. and out into the
pasture, and we'd drive them in. And it had flowers
and everything in this lane. To me, I can see the
buttercups and the phlox and the hollyhocks and
winecups and balimony and all kinds of beautiful
flowers in this lane. And we'd take old Dink, was
the name of the old milk cow, and we'd take her down
and put her out and in. Uncle Jesse took a lot of
pride and a lot of time in teaching me poetry. Now
let me tell you something. When they say that
children don't learn
until they're a certain age, that's a bunch of
baloney. Because I know that I wasn't three years
old and I was reciting poetry. I believe that. And
the first... poem that I ever learned that he ever
taught me I have a secret just wait for you Wobbin
and I in the sweet cherry tree because Wobbin knows
it best because he built a little oh I can't tell the
rest I'm afraid I'll tell it every minute and he
laid the four little somethings in Oh,
the secret, I'm afraid I'll fail.
And I can remember reciting that for Uncle Jesse
just as well as anything. He told me why the robins
laid four eggs, why the doves only had two, why the
dove nest was so poorly built. That all stemmed
back from the Bible and the history of time. This
had nothing to do with, yet they scrapped from the
ark. Oh, is that so? Those things. And then there
was, he'd teach me to sing, I'll lay away a suit of
gray to wear to the Union blue. I don't know. I
cherished those memories. I only wish I had
listened and paid a little bit more attention, but
I always had something else to do. He would tell me
why the flowers had different colors, what made
them bloom when they did, why the wine cup was
called a wine cup, why the buttercup was called a
buttercup. They don't call it buttercup anywhere
but in Texas, I don't think. They call it the
scarlet columbine
and things like that. But we call it buttercup. And
he'd pull the buttercup off and stick it to my nose
and all that yellow pollen would be around. He'd
say, got butter on your nose? Just tickle me to
death. And those are things that I remember so well
with Uncle Jesse. And he took time to swing me. And
I'd say, swing me high. And he would swing me high.
And he would sing that old spiritual, swing low
sweet chariot. For some reason, the Johnsons all
liked to sing. And they all liked music. And he
could really sing. And could he play the, what did
they call it? French harp, juicer. No, the juice
harp is something else. You flip it, but you can't.
No, this is the harmonica. That's what he, and he
could play that. And man, it was something else.
But Uncle Jesse was quite a character, and he told
me lots about the battles. He did. And how he...
about getting his leg shot off. Do you remember
that? Yes, and he was taken in in a wagon, and he was
covered up with a wagon sheet that they had and a
bunch of provisions that were left behind, just
throwed on top of him to keep the enemy from finding
that he was wound it in there and he was taking
something i believe he said 20 miles to
chattanooga to be to have this to the hospital a
hospital to have that leg finished amputating he
said it was just barely hanging and he asked
someone to cut it off and they wouldn't but they did
tie uh well he said they cut a part of his shirt tail
and tied it in string to put around as a tourniquet
around that leg to keep him from bleeding to death
from his own shirt and he was quite He must have been
in a mighty bad shape when he got there. And from
what he told me, tell about having nothing to eat
but hard tack. And of course, I didn't know what
hard tack was. One day my mother made a failure. a
complete failure in her biscuits, and he called it
heart attack. And I can remember that. It was
awful. It was so hard. She forgot to put the grease
in it, she told me. And so that... Didn't you tell me
he taught you how to count? Oh, my goodness. You
have to tell me that story. I love that story. About
the bedpost? I love that one. I have forgotten. Cut
that thing off. See if I can remember. I forget
every time. This bed that Uncle Jesse had was a
four-poster bed, and it had been cut in rings like
around it. It was made out of black walnut. And I
believe, if I'm not badly mistaken, and I don't
think I am, Dr. Perry at Fredericksburg has that in
that old two-story house. And he bought it from
Oriole. And Uncle Jesse, it was his, given to Aunt
Kate. Aunt Kate was Oriole's mother, and so I'm
sure that that's where that bed is. But anyway, I
learned to count. I would get up, but never could I.
I could get up to five, and I'd forget what six was
every time. So one day he told me, he said, six,
remember you're sick. You're a sick little girl
when you get there. You're going to be sick because
I'm going to pat you if you don't get over it. Well, I
got there, and I said, I'm sick. And he said, no,
you're six. All right, that's how I learned six.
And so then we got on, and I could count to 10. And
then from 10, he'd say, 10 and one more. And he'd
hold up two fingers. And then I'd have to count the
next bedpost. And that was the way it rings around
it. Well, this bedpost had 10 on it. And then it'd be
10 and one would be 11. And I learned how to write
those just because he'd say, what's the next one
now? It was a two, wasn't it? Well, you've got the 10
over here. You've got to put that one down. And then
put your two down. And you've got your 10 over here,
and you're just adding on to it. Now, you'll
remember that, he'd say. You've already got your
10. You're just adding one more to it, or you're
adding two more to it. It's 10 and 2. 10 and 3. Well,
that's 13. And that's how I was taught to count the
bedpost circles. 10 and 3. And they say today you
have modern math. Uh-uh. It's been here always.
Right. Let me think of some more things. I remember
in the letter that you wrote me about when you were
born, because you're the first grandchild. I was
the first granddaughter born in the Johnson
family and the first grandchild born in the
Chapman family. Tom Martin was the oldest
grandson born. in the Johnson family. He was
several years older, I guess, 12 years older than I
was. That was Mary's husband? That was Frank. I
mean, Frank. Okay. I need to get the children
straight. Eliza and Sam had how many children?
Nine. Nine. Aunt Mary was the oldest, and she died.
She was a music teacher, and she married a walling,
and she went west. Well, she had TB. And she went to
El Paso, and there's where she died. Then Aunt
Frank married Clarence Martin, was the second
one. And then Aunt Lucy married Sterling Price
from Blanco. Then Aunt Ava... married John Harvey
Bright. She was a school teacher, and she was
teaching at Granbury, taught at Granbury. And
then she taught at Beaumont, and there is where she
met Uncle John Harvey and married him. Well, and
she taught at Port Arthur also.
But she was really... Well, in 1905, when they had
the... Normal Institute from St. Marcus over here
at Brown Mountain. She made the highest average of
anyone in her class. And that was in what year?
1905. 1905. Mm-hmm. A long time ago. Yeah, but I
know where that building is. Yes, you know where
the building is, and that's a landmark in the
county. And I have... It should be represented by
Stan Mark somehow. Somehow. They should have a...
Well, I don't know... They've changed hands so
many times. That's another institute that at one
time it was a progressive, but seems to me like that
politics or something's happened. I don't know
what's happened to it, but it's not the same old
school it used to be. Listen, after Ava, who was the
next child? After Aunt Ava came Sam.
And then I believe
Uncle Sam, and then my daddy, then Aunt Kate, then
Uncle George. Then Aunt Jessie. And Aunt Jessie
was the only one living when Lyndon was president.
Oh, really? That's the picture that we had made in
Air Force One. She and I were the only Johnson
attending the inauguration.
I was the oldest grandchild, and she was the only
one living. And she was the only aunt. And he had our
picture made while I'm sitting. That's
beautiful, yeah. If you well can see, sitting in
his lap. We'll have to use that picture, too.
That's a nice photograph of all of you. But they
couldn't understand why. I said, if you'll just
look back at all the pictures, I'm just always as
close to him as I can be. And that one, sitting in his
lap. Yeah, for sure. Yeah. So that was the family.
The picture hanging in the boyhood home of us in
1916, I'm holding Lennon's little sister. Which
one that was? That was Lucia. Lucia. She was born in
1916. I'm holding her. So what year were you born?
What day? What hour? Well, the day and hour... I was
born in 1905 at 6
o'clock in the afternoon, the hottest day my
mother said it could ever be. In the month of?
August. August. The 2nd. The 2nd. I'm a Leo. I get
along well with Leos, okay. I'm a Leo. Yes. Well,
grandfather didn't go up the river hollering
that a Florence Nightingale was being born or
anything like that. But I can well remember He
said, well, I have a little queen now. I was called
his little queen in Calico. Which, that was very
true. I was treated like a little queen, as far as
he's concerned. I did no wrong. The girls with
grandfather did no wrong. The boys did. The girls
did. But the girls didn't. So you and Margaret were
spoiled? Very much so. I was three years old. My
grandfather had bought me a horse and saddle. When
you were three? When I was three. That's something
very important because the early age that you were
taught to ride My goodness in life. Think about a
child three years old riding a mile after mail and
crossing a river. Would your parents let you do
that today? No, but it was necessary for survival
that even the youngest children in a county like
this, an isolated community, know that sort of
thing. Is that right? You mighty well believe. And
we knew to ride. We knew how to ride.
Why, I can remember that grandfather gave me, and
my saddle was made, it had a great big horn, what we
called a Mexican saddle horn. He told me, he said,
if you have to grab a hold of something, sister, you
can't hold on to that horn. Grab that string on the
side. I know what string you mean, right? So I never
was taught to hold on to a saddle. That wasn't my cup
of tea. Right. From little. I have a pair of spurs
that my grandmother gave me, engraved Eliza on.
She has, and I gave them to the park thinking they'd
appreciate them and they'd put them up, and
they've never been put out. So I don't know where
they are. They're a lot. They're cataloged to
uselessness. I guess they are cataloged to
uselessness. Right. I didn't have a
granddaughter. I mean, at that time, I mean, well,
Debbie, I could have given them to her. I have one. I
gave her. I have one left. I couldn't find it, but.
In moving, never having moved in 58 years, in
moving this time, I found it. So I've got one. I'll
give it to Debbie. I didn't give her the pair. I just
had the one when I gave it to the partner. I would say
another question here. You learned how to survive
in a man's world as well as in a woman's world. I sure
did. You had no choice. Your mother, of course,
would have been in the same tradition because
pioneer women had no choice but to survive in an
equal world with their men. That was another thing
Uncle Taxi taught me to do. What was this? It was
every evening we'd go down this trail, we had
shoemake. that grew out around. And the life of a
shoemake tree is quite short. And we'd go over and
we'd break off just so much to start our fire with
the next morning. And from a little child, I have
been taking in kindling and things to start a fire
with in the morning. And let me tell you something.
The old folks didn't let their fire die out.
Uh-huh. We didn't have matches. So you kept that
fire going all the time. You kept that fire going
all the time. And you'd bank it in the summertime.
You'd bank it at night, cover it up with ashes so
you'd have a coal to start with the next morning.
Because your flame is what kept you cooking.
That's right. Laundry and all these things.
Everything. That's right. And he was the very one
that taught me how to break it off, where to get it.
And we didn't have cedar in those days.
We had shoemake to start our fire with. And he would
use the shoemake and then dry leaves. And I'd bring
in, I'd find dry leaves or something and I'd bring
it in to my mother and put it down. And a corn cob. But
listen, we didn't use but one or two corn cobs at a
time. Why is that?
Well, we would use them the year round to start
fires with if our fire went out. And coal oil was
what we used to put in the land. Now then, this fuzz
on the outside of a corn cob would ignite and catch
quick. So you would take about a teaspoon full of
coal oil and string it up and down this corn cob. and
then put it in there to start your fire with, and it
would burn. That would catch, and it would really
catch on fire and burn, and it would dry out and burn
real good. And you saved your corn top, so you'd be
sure to have one all year round. I see. Very good.
Green corn cobs don't burn. No, they have to be your
dry corn cobs. You bet. They sure do. And you know,
something else Uncle Jesse taught me. We had to
shell our own corn to go to market to take our meal.
And I didn't know what the nubbit meant. But he
would say, now I'll shuck it, sister. You take all
of the bad ones off of the end. All the bad ones off
down here at the butt. Now there's a tussle end and
the butt end. Right. All right. The ones at the butt
end are usually hard and slick. Yeah. Don't ever
put that in your meal because it doesn't make good
cornmeal and it doesn't rise good. So you had to
take all of that off. Well, that was put in a bucket.
All of this up here that was around the edge might be
worm-eaten or it was never good. You'd shell all of
that off until it was real good and you'd put that in
a bucket. That's what you fed your chickens. Oh, so
that was nubbing? Is that what you called it? Yes.
Nubbing the corn? Nubbing the corn, and you fed it
to the chickens. Very good. Sure. Makes sense.
Now, I'm telling you. Now, those are things that
are very. Those are things that I learned when I
was. Are you the old? Yeah, under the age of five.
Yes, under the age of five. Your early upbringing
was concentrated for your survival. That was
right. Which is something that people don't
realize about Blanco County and Texas being
isolated as it was at that particular time. I want
to tell you one thing. You were taught, like when
your mother built a fire around the wash pot, you'd
like to see, she'd take a shovel full of ashes and
throw it up to see which way the wind was. Oh,
really? That's right, to be sure that she got the
right wind. And that's where you'd build your
fire, where the wind would blow the fire under the
wash pot. Then you'd put something, if you
happened to be fortunate enough, that you had a old
piece of tin, which is scarce as hen's teeth. But if
you had anything that you could hold the heat,
you'd put it around that pot and hold the heat. And
it would be my job to carry it, go hunt little sticks
and little things. But I didn't go put them in the
fire. That was a no-no. I piled them down here. My
mother did that. Because there's an art to
building a fire. There's an art to building a fire.
And we didn't have a whole lot of wood that we could
go get. Only a way out in the pasture. And our daddy
had to haul it in the wagon. And we took very special
pains in using it. How much we used and what we used.
Mm-hmm. Sure. To conserve our wood. We don't do
that today. So most of this early, early childhood
was spent in Stonewall, isn't that right? Yes,
that's right. That's right there on the river. On
the Perlin Allis River. Where the present-day
ranch is now. Well, that's up the way. We call that
the big house. Uncle Clarence lived in that.
Right, okay. And now when they say the Bailey
Lane... When they go by the bus and say the Bailey
Link. That house that's sitting over there is
exactly like the house that I lived in. And it's
Cousin Oriole's. My house burned down. But the one
that I was brought up in burned down. But you can see
it from the boyhood home. I mean the birthplace.
You can see the... windmill and the trees around
it. That's one thing about the people in the hill
country. They built their houses where there was
trees that would keep it cool. And they didn't
build it out in the broad open spaces. They had
trees in their yard.